Sample scripts to automate scaleable runners (#427)
actions/runner: docs/automate.md

# Automate Configuring Self-Hosted Runner Pools

## Latest Release as Service on Nix VMs

[Run or copy this script for your use](../scripts/latest-svc.sh) to automate configuring a runner as a service on Linux or Mac

### Step 1: export PAT

> Create a GitHub PAT and export it before running the script

Reviewer: We might want to clarify the scopes required for the PAT so that users don't have to look at the API docs to know. I also don't think we need to specify a "GitHub PAT".

```suggestion
Create a PAT with `repo` scopes for repo runners and `admin:org` scopes for org runners. Export this PAT as an environment variable before running the script.
```

Author: Cool.  Is there somewhere in docs that clarifies the minimum scopes?  Ideally, I would just link to docs.  But agreed, good addition.

```bash
export RUNNER_CFG_PAT=yourPAT
```

### Step 2: config one liner

Repo level one liner; replace yourorg/yourrepo
```bash

> curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/actions/runner/automate/scripts/latest-svc.sh | bash -s yourorg/yourrepo

Reviewer: Users might be reluctant to pipe a script straight to bash, should we include instructions for downloading it and then running it as well?

Author: Done.  Added a link to sample script

# Automate Configuring Self-Hosted Runners

## Export PAT

Before running any of these sample scripts, create a GitHub PAT and export it before running the script

```bash
export RUNNER_CFG_PAT=yourPAT
```

## Create running as a service

**Scenario**: Run on a machine or VM (not container) which automates:

 - Resolving latest released runner
 - Download and extract latest
 - Acquire a registration token
 - Configure the runner
 - Run as a systemd (linux) or Launchd (osx) service

:point_right: [Sample script here](../scripts/create-latest-svc.sh) :point_left:

Run as a one-line. NOTE: replace with yourorg/yourrepo (repo level) or just yourorg (org level) 
```bash
curl -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/actions/runner/automate/scripts/create-latest-svc.sh | bash -s yourorg/yourrepo
```

## Uninstall running as service 

**Scenario**: Run on a machine or VM (not container) which automates:

 - Stops and uninstalls the systemd (linux) or Launchd (osx) service
 - Acquires a removal token
 - Removes the runner

:point_right: [Sample script here](../scripts/remove-svc.sh) :point_left:

> Repo level one liner.  NOTE: replace with yourorg/yourrepo (repo level) or just yourorg (org level) 

Reviewer 2: `Run as a one-line` instead of `Repo level one liner.` to match config ☝️ ☝️ ?

Author: I fixed them to all be consistent.  `one-liner`

```bash
curl -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/actions/runner/automate/scripts/remove-svc.sh | bash -s yourorg/yourrepo
```

> ### Delete an offline runner

Reviewer 2: do we need this? we are going to clean up dormant runners if the runner offline for 30 days.

Reviewer: Users might not want that offline runner showing up in the settings UI for 30 days

Reviewer 2: my question is more like when should we expect the customer to use this?
I can imagine in an autoscale VM/Kubernetes scenario, the customer will use the config script to set up a runner when creating VM/container and use the un-config script to un-config runner before we delete the VM/container.
If the VM/container crash or shutdown unexpected, we will use the delete offline script for cleanup. 

@bryanmacfarlane is my understand right?

Author: It's used by the same people that need the delete api (as opposed to the cli to remove).  This is used for outside/in automation where the runner goes away.  The customers I've interacted with so far for org level runners were using it for container / K8s runners where there's just an entry point.  The container is stopped outside in and then they to delete it after it goes away.
